---
title: Integration
date: "2021-11-27T23:46:37.121Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "software-vertical-integration"
category: "Learning"
tags:
  - "Learning"
description: "Should a development team vertically integrate?"
socialImage: "/media/image-2.jpg"
---


# Thoughts on Vertical Integration vs. Specialization
The depth to which software teams need to vertically integrate depends to a large extent on the maturity of the software stack they are developing. 

*Early-stage projects favor vertical integration.*

You can't get a platform right in isolation - its developement needs to be driven by specific use cases (practical requirements) as opposed to hypotheticals. When use cases ship, requirments will stabilize over time based on customer feedback. You will discover that parts of the software stack are useful in more than one scenario. 

*This over time leads to specialization.* 

A good example is presented in a recent article on [Stratechery about Weta](https://stratechery.com/2021/unity-weta-and-faceless-platforms/):
>"At the beginning everything was integrated from the movie shot to the development process to the software to the individual computer". Over the ensuing 28 years, though, each of these pieces has been broken off and modularized, increasing the leverage that can be gained from the software itself"

The same pattern happend during the development of microchips and processors for Intel. Intel benefitted from the integration of chip design and manufacturing. As the industry matured, TSMC was able to take and part of the value chain (manufacturing) and deeply invest, outperforming all other companies (huge barriers of entry due to increasing capital requirements, and technical barriers). Intel's vertical integration moved from being their core strength to their achilles heel. 

Implication:

- No platform can start in isolation looking for use cases
- Allow the *actual* requirements for the platform to surface based on customer feedback
- Then generalize and invest in parts of the stack with the most moat, and broadest applicability
