If you treat your career like a diversified stock portfolio, the best you can hope for is the average return of the market. It pays off if you sometimes break the rules. 

Reflecting on many years of working in highly competitive environments (strategy consulting, start-up, large tech) I realize that my biggest successes have come out of contrarian bets - when I was willing to break unwritten rules, make a contrarian bet, and act trusting that asking for forgiveness would be easier than asking for permission. And my biggest regrets are projects I asked for permission too early, and then was mired in justifying what I wanted to do rather than what I had done, and justifying instead of doing. 

My upbringing was one focused on "fitting in" and following the rules. It created a bias towards overestimating the cost of non-conformity, and underestimating the benefit of thinking differently. My only saving grace was me sometimes "finding a bone I wouldn't let go" (an idea I found deeply convincing but was somehow not yet mainstream). There I'd be willing to not bother about anyone's opinion and just do things because I had conviction, even though they were nowhere near my day-job-responsibilities. I frankly didn't care what anyone thought. The best step-functions in my career came out of these.

If you stick to the rules you're right to expect - long-term - good results somewhere in the vicinity of your peers who also stick to them. But there's a choice you have to make if you're looking for break-out success and then you need to pick your contrarian bets and stick to them. 

Don't get me wrong - just betting on something contrarian without some unique insight or 'angle' will still be like throwing darts at a board blindly. But worrying less about the world and breaking rules when you have conviction will work wonders. Try it.