---
title: Learning on the job
date: "2022-08-18T12:46:37.121Z"
template: "post"
draft: true
slug: "Learning-on-the-job"
category: "Introspection"
tags:
  - "Learning"
description: "" 
socialImage: "/media/pull.jpg"
---


"My job doesn't give me enough opportunity to learn." At Microsoft, like in so many other companies, we have employee listening systems. The hard part is to create a meaningful narrative out of the plethora of data that comes back from them. One area I keep struggling with as a manager in high-tech is around "lack of learning opportunities". 

Usually, the rationalization is either time ("we're all too busy shipping that we don't get time to learn"), resources ("alack of learning resources"), or job content ("my job ha no learning opportunities"). Talking to other managers anecdotal evidence suggests this problem is pervasive. 

Over the years in my management role I've tried things like "learning Fridays", "AI learning groups", "guilds", too many things to remember. Then feedback ticks up for a quarter (you can't deny action was taken), and falls right back the quarter after. It's depressing.

So many things strike me here as odd. 

# Curiosity
I deeply believe that the amount I learn is largely driven by my own level of curiosity (which is fully under my control) rather than the specific situation or job I am in. There is always something fascinating to learn and discover in the most mundane of circumstances.

Last weekend I had to fix a closet door which was impossible to open. I'm busy during the week, so I dread this "other jobs" on my plate on the weekend. But form some unknown reason I convinced myself that surely there's SOMETHING worth learning here. I had this elaborate theory that all I'd have to do is spray WD40 and the problem would go away. But to my great surprise I discovered how the friction of the door was actually controlled - it had this little metal ball embedded in small metal cylinder with a spring in it. The cylinder was embedded in the top of the door, and created friction with another metal piece in the door frame. Once I understood how everything worked, the fix was trivial (move the cylinder further down to increase the distance between metal ball and frame, a quick fix with a screw driver).  I was mesmerized by the simplicity of the mechanism, and how few parts were needed to create a durable, servicable component that did its job well. The software engineers reading this will surely appreciate these characteristics. 

Back to learning. Even my dreaded weekend 'job' offered a unique opportunity to learn because I reframed my mind from dread to curiosity. So I think what's really often missing in our jobs is reframing things in a way how a an alien (or child!) would look at what we do - finding the magic in how groups work together, the amazement of using tools and infrastructure that took decades of the smarted people in the world to build, or the complexity of human interactions and the many pitfalls communication entails. 

# Learning material 
Even only using my King County Library card and youtube alone there's more amazing learning material available for let's say a 3d modeling tool I'm currently learning thank I can consume in my lifetime (probably many times over).

# Time to learn on the job
I've frankly never found the official corporate training courses that useful. My personal learning style has always been "on the job doing projects", rather than in the abstract. I learn by tinkering, applying things, doing things in a tight feedback loop with outcomes I can point to. 